APPLICATION DOMAIN

Improvement of infrastracture and public service in Montreal
 and prediction of the future needs.

DESCRIPTION

---Based on information demand using service 311 of Montreal City we will figure out 
the main issues to be solved in Montreal and predict possible future people' needs 
based on demographic statistical data:

-Data collected varies depending on neibourhood, date and time, type of application. 

-Combining these date with socio-demographic data, one can make correlation analysis 
based on number of habitants, sex, family status etc. 

-Creating Pivot Table and applying Statistical and Conditional Analysis one can
visualize data and highlight the main problems and potentially provide possible solutions. 


 
SIX V: 
 
-Value: Yes 

Plots, graphics and histograms will provide visualization of problems to be solved.
 
-Visibility: Yes 

All data regarding numbers and statistics are public. However, no personal information on participants are provided. 

-Velocity: No

The data for analysis are collected for previous years. No real-time data are processed.

-Volume: Yes 

Information requests collected for 2-3 year period contains >1000000 records. 
One should take into account demographic statistical data as well.
 
-Variety: Yes 

Data varies on districts, dates, types of requested information.
Districts themselves are characterized by multiple parameters 
(amount of habitants, sex, age, ethnicity, etc.)

-Veracity: Yes

No reason not to trust data collected by 311 town service and StatCan.


DATA SETS:

http://donnees.ville.montreal.qc.ca/dataset/requete-311

Dataset contains info requests, dates and districts (for 2014-2016).

http://ville.montreal.qc.ca/portal/page?_pageid=6897,68087646&_dad=portal&_schema=PORTAL

Dataset with population statistics (age, sex, ethnicity,etc.) for 2016.
Although the first dataset provides data for almost three years, one can use all of them for statistical analysis, 
as well as to provide time trend over 3-year period.